# MICROSERVICE-DEVELOPMENT-FROM-API-ENABLED-ON-PYTHON
MICROSERVICES DEVELOPMENT FROM API ENABLED ON PYTHON
MICROSERVICES DEVELOPMENT FROM API ENABLED ON PYTHON
School of CSA, REVA University Page | 1
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 INTRODUCTION TO PROJECT A microservice is a small, loosely coupled distributed service. Microservice Architectures evolved as a solution to the scalability and innovation challenges with Monolith architectures (Monolith applications are typically huge – more 100, 000 line of code). It allows you to take a large application and decompose or break into easily manageable small components with narrowly defined responsibilities. Benefits of Microservices Small Modules Application is broken into smaller modules which are easy for developers to code and maintain. Easier Process Adaption By using microservices, new Technology & Process Adaption becomes easier. You can try new technologies with the newer microservices that we use. Independent scaling Each microservice can scale independently via X-axis scaling (cloning with more CPU or memory) and Z-axis scaling (sharding), based upon their needs. Unaffected Large applications remain largely unaffected by the failure of a single module. DURS Each service can be independently DURS (deployed, updated, replaced, and scaled).
So to simplify the work of Microservices, We Introduce you to AWS Microservices where each and every part of the services can be easily managed. Microservices are an architectural and organizational approach to software development to speed up deployment cycles, foster innovation and ownership, improve maintainability and scalability of software applications, and scale organizations delivering software and services by using an agile approach that helps teams to work independently from each other. Using a microservices approach, software is composed of small services that communicate over well-defined APIs that can be deployed independently. These services
MICROSERVICES DEVELOPMENT FROM API ENABLED ON PYTHON
School of CSA, REVA University Page | 2
are owned by small autonomous teams. This agile approach is key to successfully scale your o Microservices architectures are not a completely new approach to software engineering, but rather a combination of various successful and proven concepts such as: Agile software development Service-oriented architectures API-first design Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) We first describe different aspects of a highly scalable, fault-tolerant microservices architecture (user interface, microservices implementation, and data store) and how to build it on AWS leveraging container technologies. We then recommend the AWS services for implementing a typical serverless microservices architecture in order to reduce operational complexity. Serverless is defined as an operational model by the following tenets: No infrastructure to provision or manage Automatically scaling by unit of consumption “Pay for value” billing model Built-in availability and fault tolerance Finally, we look at the overall system and discuss the cross-service aspects of a microservices architecture, such as distributed monitoring and auditing, data consistency, and asynchronous communication. organization.
API (Application Programming Interface)
API is the acronym for Application Programming Interface, which is a software intermediary that allows two applications to talk to each other. Each time you use an app like Facebook, send an instant message, or check the weather on your phone, you’re using an API.
When you use an application on your mobile phone, the application connects to the Internet and sends data to a server. The server then retrieves that data, interprets it, performs the necessary actions and sends it back to your phone. The application then interprets that data and presents you with the information you wanted in a readable way. This is what an API is - all of this happens via API.
